docs/task-format.md, before:

# Task Format

This document describes the task format used by gevals to define evaluation tasks.

## Overview

Tasks define what an agent should do and how to verify it succeeded. Each task specifies:

- A prompt to give the agent
- Optional setup steps to run before the agent
- Verification steps to check the agent's work
- Optional cleanup steps to run after verification

gevals supports two API versions:

- `gevals/v1alpha2` - Declarative step-based format (recommended for new tasks)
- `gevals/v1alpha1` - Legacy script-based format (still supported)

## Task Schema

A v1alpha2 task has the following structure:

```yaml
kind: Task
apiVersion: gevals/v1alpha2
metadata:
  name: string        # Required. Unique task identifier.
  difficulty: string  # Optional. One of: easy, medium, hard.

spec:
  requires:           # Optional. Extension requirements.
    - extension: string

  setup:              # Optional. Steps to run before the agent.
    - stepType: { ... }

  verify:             # Required. Steps to check task success.
    - stepType: { ... }

  cleanup:            # Optional. Steps to run after verification.
    - stepType: { ... }

  prompt:             # Required. What to tell the agent.
    inline: string    # Inline prompt text.
    # or
    file: string      # Path to prompt file.
```

### Step Format

Each step is a single-key map where the key is the step type and the value is the step configuration:

```yaml
- http:
    url: https://example.com
    expect:
      status: 200

- script:
    file: ./verify.sh
```

## Built-in Step Types

gevals provides three built-in step types.

### http

Makes an HTTP request and optionally validates the response.

```yaml
- http:
    url: string               # Required. URL to request.
    method: string            # Optional. Default: GET.
    headers:                  # Optional. Request headers.
      Header-Name: value
    body:                     # Optional. Request body (one of):
      raw: string             #   Raw string body.
      json: { ... }           #   JSON object body.
    timeout: string           # Optional. Default: 5m. Duration format (e.g., 30s, 2m).
    expect:                   # Optional. Response validation.
      status: number          #   Expected status code.
      body:                   #   Body validation.
        match: regex          #     Regex pattern on raw body.
        fields:               #     JSON field assertions.
          - path: string      #       Dot notation path (e.g., data.user.name, items[0].id).
            equals: any       #       Expected value.
            type: string      #       Expected type: string, number, array, object, bool, null.
            match: regex      #       Regex for string values.
            exists: boolean   #       Field presence check.
```

**Example:**

```yaml
- http:
    url: http://localhost:8080/api/users
    method: GET
    headers:
      Authorization: Bearer token123
    expect:
      status: 200
      body:
        fields:
          - path: data.users
            type: array
          - path: data.users[0].email
            match: ".*@example\\.com"
```

### script

Runs a script file or inline script content.

```yaml
- script:
    file: string            # Path to script file (relative to task directory).
    # or
    inline: string          # Inline script content.

    timeout: string         # Optional. Default: 5m. Duration format.
    continueOnError: bool   # Optional. Default: false. If true, step failure does not stop execution.
```

Scripts with a shebang (`#!/usr/bin/env python3`) are executed directly. Scripts without a shebang are executed using the shell specified by `$SHELL` or `/usr/bin/bash`.

**Example with file:**

```yaml
- script:
    file: ./verify.sh
    timeout: 2m
```

**Example with inline script:**

```yaml
- script:
    inline: |
      #!/usr/bin/env python3
      import subprocess
      result = subprocess.run(["kubectl", "get", "pod", "nginx"], capture_output=True)
      exit(0 if result.returncode == 0 else 1)
```

### llmJudge

Uses an LLM to evaluate the agent's response. Only valid in the verify phase. Requires an LLM judge to be configured in the eval.yaml.

```yaml
- llmJudge:
    contains: string   # Semantic containment check.
    # or
    exact: string      # Semantic equivalence check.
```

One of `contains` or `exact` must be specified, but not both.

- `contains` - Passes if the agent's response semantically contains the expected information.
- `exact` - Passes if the agent's response is semantically equivalent to the expected answer.

**Example:**

```yaml
- llmJudge:
    contains: "The pod is running in the default namespace"
```

## Using Extensions

Extensions provide domain-specific operations (e.g., Kubernetes resource management). To use an extension:

1. Declare the extension requirement in the task
2. Configure the extension in eval.yaml
3. Use extension operations as steps

### Declaring Extension Requirements

In your task file, declare which extensions the task needs:

```yaml
spec:
  requires:
    - extension: kubernetes
```

### Configuring Extensions in eval.yaml

Extensions are configured in the eval.yaml under `config.extensions`:

```yaml
kind: Eval
metadata:
  name: my-eval
config:
  extensions:
    kubernetes:                          # Extension alias (matches spec.requires)
      package: https://github.com/genmcp/gevals-kubernetes-extension@v0.0.1
      config:                            # Optional. Extension-specific configuration.
        kubeconfig: ~/.kube/config
      env:                               # Optional. Environment variables for the extension.
        KUBECONFIG: /path/to/config
```

The `package` field can be:
- A GitHub package reference (e.g., `https://github.com/org/repo@v1.0.0`)
- A relative or absolute path to a local binary (for development)

### Using Extension Operations

Extension operations use the syntax `extension.operation`:

```yaml
setup:
  - kubernetes.create:
      apiVersion: v1
      kind: Namespace
      metadata:
        name: test-namespace

verify:
  - kubernetes.wait:
      apiVersion: v1
      kind: Pod
      metadata:
        name: my-pod
        namespace: test-namespace
      condition: Ready
      timeout: 120s

cleanup:
  - kubernetes.delete:
      apiVersion: v1
      kind: Namespace
      metadata:
        name: test-namespace
      ignoreNotFound: true
```

The arguments passed to each operation depend on the extension. Extensions define their operations and parameter schemas in their manifest. See the extension's documentation for available operations.

## Complete Example

Here is a complete v1alpha2 task that creates and verifies a Kubernetes pod:

```yaml
kind: Task
apiVersion: gevals/v1alpha2
metadata:
  name: create-nginx-pod
  difficulty: easy

spec:
  requires:
    - extension: kubernetes

  setup:
    # Clean up any existing namespace first
    - kubernetes.delete:
        apiVersion: v1
        kind: Namespace
        metadata:
          name: create-pod-test
        ignoreNotFound: true

    # Create a fresh namespace
    - kubernetes.create:
        apiVersion: v1
        kind: Namespace
        metadata:
          name: create-pod-test

  verify:
    # Wait for the pod to be ready
    - kubernetes.wait:
        apiVersion: v1
        kind: Pod
        metadata:
          name: web-server
          namespace: create-pod-test
        condition: Ready
        timeout: 120s

  cleanup:
    # Delete the namespace to clean up all resources
    - kubernetes.delete:
        apiVersion: v1
        kind: Namespace
        metadata:
          name: create-pod-test
        ignoreNotFound: true

  prompt:
    inline: Please create a nginx pod named web-server in the create-pod-test namespace
```

## Legacy Format (v1alpha1)

The legacy format uses script files for setup, verify, and cleanup:

```yaml
kind: Task
metadata:
  name: my-task
  difficulty: easy
steps:
  setup:
    file: setup.sh
  verify:
    file: verify.sh
  cleanup:
    file: cleanup.sh
  prompt:
    inline: "Do something"
```

This format is still supported. Tasks without an `apiVersion` field or with `apiVersion: gevals/v1alpha1` use this format.

The v1alpha1 format also supports LLM judge verification:

```yaml
steps:
  verify:
    contains: "expected semantic content"
    # or
    exact: "expected exact answer"
```

## Migrating from v1alpha1 to v1alpha2

To convert a legacy task to the new format, replace script file references with `script` steps.

**Before (v1alpha1):**

```yaml
kind: Task
metadata:
  name: my-task
  difficulty: medium
steps:
  setup:
    file: setup.sh
  verify:
    file: verify.sh
  cleanup:
    file: cleanup.sh
  prompt:
    inline: "Do something"
```

**After (v1alpha2):**

```yaml
kind: Task
apiVersion: gevals/v1alpha2
metadata:
  name: my-task
  difficulty: medium
spec:
  setup:
    - script:
        file: setup.sh

  verify:
    - script:
        file: verify.sh

  cleanup:
    - script:
        file: cleanup.sh

  prompt:
    inline: "Do something"
```

Key changes:

1. Add `apiVersion: gevals/v1alpha2`
2. Move task definition under `spec`
3. Replace `steps.setup.file: setup.sh` with a `script` step in `spec.setup`
4. Each phase (`setup`, `verify`, `cleanup`) is now an array of steps

You can also inline scripts directly:

```yaml
spec:
  verify:
    - script:
        inline: |
          #!/bin/bash
          kubectl get pod my-pod -o jsonpath='{.status.phase}' | grep -q Running
```

Once migrated, you can incrementally replace script steps with built-in steps or extension operations to reduce bash complexity.

## Extension Protocol

Extensions communicate with gevals using JSON-RPC 2.0 over stdio. For details on implementing an extension, see [Extension Protocol Specification](specs/extension-protocol.md).

Commit message:

cleanup: rename gevals references to mcpchecker
Signed-off-by: Calum Murray <cmurray@redhat.com>

docs/task-format.md, after:

# Task Format

This document describes the task format used by mcpchecker to define evaluation tasks.

## Overview

Tasks define what an agent should do and how to verify it succeeded. Each task specifies:

- A prompt to give the agent
- Optional setup steps to run before the agent
- Verification steps to check the agent's work
- Optional cleanup steps to run after verification

mcpchecker supports two API versions:

- `mcpchecker/v1alpha2` - Declarative step-based format (recommended for new tasks)
- `mcpchecker/v1alpha1` - Legacy script-based format (still supported)

## Task Schema

A v1alpha2 task has the following structure:

```yaml
kind: Task
apiVersion: mcpchecker/v1alpha2
metadata:
  name: string        # Required. Unique task identifier.
  difficulty: string  # Optional. One of: easy, medium, hard.

spec:
  requires:           # Optional. Extension requirements.
    - extension: string

  setup:              # Optional. Steps to run before the agent.
    - stepType: { ... }

  verify:             # Required. Steps to check task success.
    - stepType: { ... }

  cleanup:            # Optional. Steps to run after verification.
    - stepType: { ... }

  prompt:             # Required. What to tell the agent.
    inline: string    # Inline prompt text.
    # or
    file: string      # Path to prompt file.
```

### Step Format

Each step is a single-key map where the key is the step type and the value is the step configuration:

```yaml
- http:
    url: https://example.com
    expect:
      status: 200

- script:
    file: ./verify.sh
```

## Built-in Step Types

mcpchecker provides three built-in step types.

### http

Makes an HTTP request and optionally validates the response.

```yaml
- http:
    url: string               # Required. URL to request.
    method: string            # Optional. Default: GET.
    headers:                  # Optional. Request headers.
      Header-Name: value
    body:                     # Optional. Request body (one of):
      raw: string             #   Raw string body.
      json: { ... }           #   JSON object body.
    timeout: string           # Optional. Default: 5m. Duration format (e.g., 30s, 2m).
    expect:                   # Optional. Response validation.
      status: number          #   Expected status code.
      body:                   #   Body validation.
        match: regex          #     Regex pattern on raw body.
        fields:               #     JSON field assertions.
          - path: string      #       Dot notation path (e.g., data.user.name, items[0].id).
            equals: any       #       Expected value.
            type: string      #       Expected type: string, number, array, object, bool, null.
            match: regex      #       Regex for string values.
            exists: boolean   #       Field presence check.
```

**Example:**

```yaml
- http:
    url: http://localhost:8080/api/users
    method: GET
    headers:
      Authorization: Bearer token123
    expect:
      status: 200
      body:
        fields:
          - path: data.users
            type: array
          - path: data.users[0].email
            match: ".*@example\\.com"
```

### script

Runs a script file or inline script content.

```yaml
- script:
    file: string            # Path to script file (relative to task directory).
    # or
    inline: string          # Inline script content.

    timeout: string         # Optional. Default: 5m. Duration format.
    continueOnError: bool   # Optional. Default: false. If true, step failure does not stop execution.
```

Scripts with a shebang (`#!/usr/bin/env python3`) are executed directly. Scripts without a shebang are executed using the shell specified by `$SHELL` or `/usr/bin/bash`.

**Example with file:**

```yaml
- script:
    file: ./verify.sh
    timeout: 2m
```

**Example with inline script:**

```yaml
- script:
    inline: |
      #!/usr/bin/env python3
      import subprocess
      result = subprocess.run(["kubectl", "get", "pod", "nginx"], capture_output=True)
      exit(0 if result.returncode == 0 else 1)
```

### llmJudge

Uses an LLM to evaluate the agent's response. Only valid in the verify phase. Requires an LLM judge to be configured in the eval.yaml.

```yaml
- llmJudge:
    contains: string   # Semantic containment check.
    # or
    exact: string      # Semantic equivalence check.
```

One of `contains` or `exact` must be specified, but not both.

- `contains` - Passes if the agent's response semantically contains the expected information.
- `exact` - Passes if the agent's response is semantically equivalent to the expected answer.

**Example:**

```yaml
- llmJudge:
    contains: "The pod is running in the default namespace"
```

## Using Extensions

Extensions provide domain-specific operations (e.g., Kubernetes resource management). To use an extension:

1. Declare the extension requirement in the task
2. Configure the extension in eval.yaml
3. Use extension operations as steps

### Declaring Extension Requirements

In your task file, declare which extensions the task needs:

```yaml
spec:
  requires:
    - extension: kubernetes
```

### Configuring Extensions in eval.yaml

Extensions are configured in the eval.yaml under `config.extensions`:

```yaml
kind: Eval
metadata:
  name: my-eval
config:
  extensions:
    kubernetes:                          # Extension alias (matches spec.requires)
      package: https://github.com/mcpchecker/kubernetes-extension@v0.0.1
      config:                            # Optional. Extension-specific configuration.
        kubeconfig: ~/.kube/config
      env:                               # Optional. Environment variables for the extension.
        KUBECONFIG: /path/to/config
```

The `package` field can be:
- A GitHub package reference (e.g., `https://github.com/org/repo@v1.0.0`)
- A relative or absolute path to a local binary (for development)

### Using Extension Operations

Extension operations use the syntax `extension.operation`:

```yaml
setup:
  - kubernetes.create:
      apiVersion: v1
      kind: Namespace
      metadata:
        name: test-namespace

verify:
  - kubernetes.wait:
      apiVersion: v1
      kind: Pod
      metadata:
        name: my-pod
        namespace: test-namespace
      condition: Ready
      timeout: 120s

cleanup:
  - kubernetes.delete:
      apiVersion: v1
      kind: Namespace
      metadata:
        name: test-namespace
      ignoreNotFound: true
```

The arguments passed to each operation depend on the extension. Extensions define their operations and parameter schemas in their manifest. See the extension's documentation for available operations.

## Complete Example

Here is a complete v1alpha2 task that creates and verifies a Kubernetes pod:

```yaml
kind: Task
apiVersion: mcpchecker/v1alpha2
metadata:
  name: create-nginx-pod
  difficulty: easy

spec:
  requires:
    - extension: kubernetes

  setup:
    # Clean up any existing namespace first
    - kubernetes.delete:
        apiVersion: v1
        kind: Namespace
        metadata:
          name: create-pod-test
        ignoreNotFound: true

    # Create a fresh namespace
    - kubernetes.create:
        apiVersion: v1
        kind: Namespace
        metadata:
          name: create-pod-test

  verify:
    # Wait for the pod to be ready
    - kubernetes.wait:
        apiVersion: v1
        kind: Pod
        metadata:
          name: web-server
          namespace: create-pod-test
        condition: Ready
        timeout: 120s

  cleanup:
    # Delete the namespace to clean up all resources
    - kubernetes.delete:
        apiVersion: v1
        kind: Namespace
        metadata:
          name: create-pod-test
        ignoreNotFound: true

  prompt:
    inline: Please create a nginx pod named web-server in the create-pod-test namespace
```

## Legacy Format (v1alpha1)

The legacy format uses script files for setup, verify, and cleanup:

```yaml
kind: Task
metadata:
  name: my-task
  difficulty: easy
steps:
  setup:
    file: setup.sh
  verify:
    file: verify.sh
  cleanup:
    file: cleanup.sh
  prompt:
    inline: "Do something"
```

This format is still supported. Tasks without an `apiVersion` field or with `apiVersion: mcpchecker/v1alpha1` use this format.

The v1alpha1 format also supports LLM judge verification:

```yaml
steps:
  verify:
    contains: "expected semantic content"
    # or
    exact: "expected exact answer"
```

## Migrating from v1alpha1 to v1alpha2

To convert a legacy task to the new format, replace script file references with `script` steps.

**Before (v1alpha1):**

```yaml
kind: Task
metadata:
  name: my-task
  difficulty: medium
steps:
  setup:
    file: setup.sh
  verify:
    file: verify.sh
  cleanup:
    file: cleanup.sh
  prompt:
    inline: "Do something"
```

**After (v1alpha2):**

```yaml
kind: Task
apiVersion: mcpchecker/v1alpha2
metadata:
  name: my-task
  difficulty: medium
spec:
  setup:
    - script:
        file: setup.sh

  verify:
    - script:
        file: verify.sh

  cleanup:
    - script:
        file: cleanup.sh

  prompt:
    inline: "Do something"
```

Key changes:

1. Add `apiVersion: mcpchecker/v1alpha2`
2. Move task definition under `spec`
3. Replace `steps.setup.file: setup.sh` with a `script` step in `spec.setup`
4. Each phase (`setup`, `verify`, `cleanup`) is now an array of steps

You can also inline scripts directly:

```yaml
spec:
  verify:
    - script:
        inline: |
          #!/bin/bash
          kubectl get pod my-pod -o jsonpath='{.status.phase}' | grep -q Running
```

Once migrated, you can incrementally replace script steps with built-in steps or extension operations to reduce bash complexity.

## Extension Protocol

Extensions communicate with mcpchecker using JSON-RPC 2.0 over stdio. For details on implementing an extension, see [Extension Protocol Specification](specs/extension-protocol.md).
